Hello, my name is Jahnke. This is my 5-minute
recitation of Chapters 3.1 and 3.2, both
of which discuss free speech in regards to
cyber communications.

I'm very happy that I was given these
chapters to discuss for 2 reasons:

1. I believe strongly in the First Amendment.
I am a free speech advocate. I believe
that our right to freedom of expression
is just as important today as it was
when it was ratified in 1791. As an
example, there is case in the U.K.
just last month
in August. A man was arrested for
retweeting a bastardized depiction of
four pride flags arranged to appear like a
swastika. Why was he arrested? Someone was
"caused anxiety by [his] social media post."
Interestingly, the man who originally
tweeted photo was paid no visit by the police.
This may be "offensive", but I agree
with Voltaire's sentiment
of free speech; although
I may not approve of what this man's
expression on social media, I believe
in his right to have expressed himself.

2. Free speech and freedom of expression
are rights up until it causes measurable
harm to others or society. Where one
crosses into the other always leads to
great conversations.

How does free speech apply to cyber
communications? It is rooted in three
frameworks:
1. Print media (newspapers, magazines)
2. Broadcast (television and radio)
3. common carriers (telephone and postal system)

Each of these had their own guidelines
on how the FA applies to that medium.

With the internet, those distinctions
become more blurry and those guidelines
become less useful because the internet
as a whole is a mashup of all three categories

The discussion of free speech in cyberspace
ultimately revolves around the question
of how far can censorship go?

In regards to non-public means and platforms,
such as YouTube and Twitter, the destinction
is made by the owners. They dictate their own
terms and conditions so one is only allowed
to make expression that fit those.
As long as these places don't become a monopoly,
they can make those terms and conditions
whatever they want. If one were to become
a de facto public forum or carrier,
the government may need to step in to 
legislate those terms and conditions in the
interest of the common good. But as long
as there is variety and ease of access to
types of content and methods of distribution,
companies can regulate themselves.
This is why we have both a wholesome streaming
service like Twitch and a more lewd
streaming service like only fans.

In regards to public means and platforms,
the government can place restrictions
on the first amendment for use of those
entities. Sometimes they get the legistation
right and other times they get it wrong
which ends up with the Supreme Court
or a lesser court finding it unconstitutional.
The most interesting one in my opinion from
the text was Communications Decency Act
of 1996 which criminalized making obscene
or indecent content available to minors.
The issue that arose was that these restictions
on access from minors also limited the
access of adults which was outside the
scope of the legislation. The Supreme Court
struck down the law based on the ruling
of Butler v. Michigan from 1957.
Michigan had passed a law that made it illegal
to sell material that might be damaging to
children. Justice Frankfurter renounced it,
stating the state must not "reduce the adult
population of Michingan to reading only what
is fit for children." I fancied reading that.

That is all the time I have to discuss
Chapters 3.1 and 3.2. Thank you for
your attention.



