pg. 160 - 182

cell phones and internet did not exist when the constitution was written
pamphlets to photographs to rock music the video games to internet
each new medium was met with some level of scrutiny from the government and society

first amendment was written to protect offensive and controversial speech
covers not merely the spoken word but also written words, art, picture, podcasts

publishers may choose to ban speech they find offensive or unfitting their brand

PG 162
if the federal government (and probably smaller forms) fund certain programs, it can
and does elect to place restrictions on free speech in those programs' media
- discussion on abortion, religion, etc.

3.1.2

Three categories of FA protection:
1. print media (newspapers, books)
2. broacast (TV, radio)
3. common carriers (telephone, post)

PRINT
Strongest protection because no question about whether FA is applied
Some restrictions (e.g., banned books)

BROADCAST
Gov't regulates structure and content
- issues broadcasting licenses to meet standards of merit
  - differs from print (no license) in freedom of expression
- no cigarette ads on TV, radio, but in magazines allowed

Main argument to deny full FA protection is scarcity of broadcast frequencies
- in exchange of monopoly privilege
- mostly negated because of the internet, but precedent remains
- broadcasts materials to the home and subsequently children

COMMON CARRIERS
- mode of communication; not considered content
- required to be made available to everyone

Do not provide content as might be discriminatory against competing providers
  who must also use telephone lines

PG 164
Because internet is so flexible, it does not fit neatly into a single category

Telecommunications Act of 1996
- revised the Communications Act of 1934
- clarified the question of liability on ISPs
-->

Print publishers are liable for all content as they are the editor
Tele. Act stated "no provider or user of an interactive computer service
  shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by
  another information content provider"

PG 165
Communications Decency Act of 1996
- Supreme Court ruled its censorship provisions unconstitutional

3.2
PG 166
What is offensive speech? Is it illegal?

Depending on the smoothness
of one's brain, literally
anything could be offensive
to someone on the Internet.

*********
"A doctor argued for regulating medical discussion in the [Internet]
  so that people would not get bad advice."
Public safety vs. freedom of expression
*********

porn or sexually explicit material is the basis of most
censorship efforts in the US

erotica vs. art. vs porn

SC ruled FA does not protect obscene material
Miller vs. California (1973)

What is obscene?
1. sexual acts prohibited by state law
2. patently offensive, appealing to prurient interest judged by
  a reasonable person
- having or encouraging an excessive interest in sexual matters.
3. no serious literary, artistic, social, political, or scientific value

"This court can find no meaningful difference betweeen computer
language...and German or French.... For the purposes of the First
Amendment analysis, this court finds that source code is speech."

3.2.2
PG 168

SC ruled that many laws enacted in the first decade of the
internet to censor porn were violated the FA

Comms. Decency Act, 1996 made it illegal to distribute content
that may may be harmful to children

Butler vs. Michigan, 1957
Justic Frankfurter stated the state must not "reduce the adult population
of Michigan to reading only what is fit for children"

American Civil Liberties Union et al. vs. Janet Reno
ruled unanimously that CDA provisions were unconstitutional
"the Internet deserves the highest protection from government intrusion."

PG 171
Alternatives to censorship

software filters can block websites with specific words, phrases, or images
log internet activity
- good for parents to monitor children
filters are not perfect
- can block innocuous words, such as Essex
- fail to block far-out objectionable material

PG 172
"harmful and dangerous conduct, not speech, [is what] justifies
adverse legal consequences."
- Senator Patrick Leahy

PG 173
VIDEO GAMES
The interactive nature of video games is the reason given by many
their opponents

SC ruled a California ban on sale or rental of violent
video games to minor violated the FA in 2011.
- "disgust is not a valid basis for restricting expression"

PG 174
CHILD P. LAW








